Deploy guide for Rancher/RKE (#108)
cybozu-go/topolvm: docs/rancher.md

How to use TopoLVM with Rancher/RKE
===================================

> This document is a brief introduction of how to use TopoLVM on [Rancher/RKE](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/).

Reviewer: "gcloud" command (and initialize the command) is required to try this guide.
So please write the requirement.

4 VMs will be used in this example. Each VM will be configured to have the following role:

| Hostname  | Machine Type    | Role              | Requirement             |
| --------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------- |
| `rancher` | `n1-standard-2` | Rancher Server    | Allow HTTP/HTTPS        |
| `master`  | `n1-standard-2` | Kubernetes Master |                         |
| `worker1` | `n1-standard-2` | Kubernetes Worker | Mount 1 SSD for TopoLVM |
| `worker2` | `n1-standard-2` | Kubernetes Worker | Mount 1 SSD for TopoLVM |

## 1. Run Rancher Server

### Create GCP instance

Create a GCP instance for Rancher Server.

```bash
ZONE=asia-northeast1-c
gcloud compute instances create rancher \

>   --zone ${ZONE} \

Reviewer: Can I omit the `--zone` option from `gcloud` if the `gcloud` command is configured properly?

Author: I think so but I'm not sure if I should change the commands as you said.

Reviewer: OK. Please try and fix appropriately.

Author: Why do you think that should be changed?
There is only a little difference, but I prefer not to force users to update their settings(=zone).

Reviewer: Why do you force users to use `asia-northeast1-c`?
This is an official guide. If the default zone is set properly, we should let users use the zone which the user wants, I think.

Author: I don't mean to force them to use `asia-northeast1-c`.
Which zone they use is optional, but I just wanted to give it with `--zone`.

Reviewer: I don't say anything anymore.

Of course, my base documentation is bad too.
But I think it's not good as an official document.

# Register service
sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/systemd/system/lvmd.service https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/systemd/lvmd.service
sudo systemctl enable lvmd
sudo systemctl start lvmd
exit
```

## 5. Deploy TopoLVM

```bash
TOPOLVM_VERSION=0.4.0
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/deploy/manifests?ref=v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/manifests/certificates.yaml
```

## 6. Configure `topolvm-scheduler`

You almost finish deploying TopoLVM here, but you need a little tweak to make `topolvm-scheduler` work properly.

###  Update `topolvm-scheduler` manifest

First, `master` has the following label and taint.

- Label
    1. `node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane=true`
    2. `node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd=true`
- Taints
    1. `node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane=true:NoSchedule`
    2. `node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd=true:NoExecute`

To locate `topolvm-scheduler` onto `master`, update node affinity and toleration.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Please replace all `bash` occurrences with `console` as they all look like console I/O.

$ kubectl edit daemonset topolvm-scheduler -n topolvm-system
# Edit as follows
 apiVersion: apps/v1
 kind: DaemonSet
...
 spec:
...
   template:
...
     spec:
       affinity:
         nodeAffinity:
           requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
             nodeSelectorTerms:
             - matchExpressions:
-              - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
+              - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane
                 operator: Exists
...
       tolerations:
       - key: CriticalAddonsOnly
         operator: Exists
-      - effect: NoSchedule
-        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
+      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane
+        operator: Exists
+      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd
+        operator: Exists
...
```

### Apply scheduler extension

> Download the scheduler extension configuration files onto `master`.

Reviewer: Please write that we need to put the config file under `/etc/kubernetes` and that reason.

```bash
gcloud compute ssh --zone ${ZONE} master

TOPOLVM_VERSION=0.4.0
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/scheduler

> sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/kubernetes/scheduler/scheduler-config.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/masa213f/example-topolvm/master/scheduler-config/scheduler-config.yaml

Reviewer 2: Do not reference `masa213f`.

How to use TopoLVM with Rancher/RKE
===================================

This document is a brief introduction of how to use TopoLVM on [Rancher/RKE](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/).

> 4 GCP instances will be used in this example. Each instance will be configured to have the following role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rancher/RKE will be deployed on the following 4 instances of Google Compute Engine (GCE).
```

Create `master`, `worker1` and `worker2`.
`worker1` and `worker2` mounts SSD at `/dev/nvme0` to provision TopoLVM volumes.

```console
gcloud compute instances create master \
  --zone ${ZONE} \
  --machine-type n1-standard-2 \
  --image-project ubuntu-os-cloud \
  --image-family ubuntu-1804-lts \
  --boot-disk-size 200GB

gcloud compute instances create worker1 \
  --zone ${ZONE} \
  --machine-type n1-standard-2 \
  --local-ssd interface=nvme \
  --image-project ubuntu-os-cloud \
  --image-family ubuntu-1804-lts

gcloud compute instances create worker2 \
  --zone ${ZONE} \
  --machine-type n1-standard-2 \
  --local-ssd interface=nvme \
  --image-project ubuntu-os-cloud \
  --image-family ubuntu-1804-lts
```

### Install Docker

Run the installation script.

```console
gcloud compute ssh --zone ${ZONE} master -- "curl -sSLf https://get.docker.com | sudo sh"
gcloud compute ssh --zone ${ZONE} worker1 -- "curl -sSLf https://get.docker.com | sudo sh"
gcloud compute ssh --zone ${ZONE} worker2 -- "curl -sSLf https://get.docker.com | sudo sh"
```

### Deploy Kubernetes components with Rancher

Go to the Rancher dashboard and click `Add Cluster` -> `From existing nodes (Custom)`.

> Then configuration page will come up. Overwrite some default values with the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to the Rancher dashboard and click `Add Cluster` -> `From existing nodes (Custom)`
to see the configuration page.  Overwrite some default values as follows.
```

# Register service
sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/systemd/system/lvmd.service https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/systemd/lvmd.service
sudo systemctl enable lvmd
sudo systemctl start lvmd
exit
```

```console
gcloud compute ssh --zone ${ZONE} worker2

# Install lvmd
TOPOLVM_VERSION=0.4.0
sudo mkdir -p /opt/sbin
curl -sSLf https://github.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/releases/download/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/lvmd-${TOPOLVM_VERSION}.tar.gz | sudo tar xzf - -C /opt/sbin

# Register service
sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/systemd/system/lvmd.service https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/systemd/lvmd.service
sudo systemctl enable lvmd
sudo systemctl start lvmd
exit
```

## 5. Deploy TopoLVM

```console
TOPOLVM_VERSION=0.4.0
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/deploy/manifests?ref=v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/manifests/certificates.yaml
```

## 6. Configure `topolvm-scheduler`

You almost finish deploying TopoLVM here, but you need a little tweak to make `topolvm-scheduler` work properly.

> 

Reviewer 2: Seems spurious.

```suggestion
```

###  Update `topolvm-scheduler` manifest

First, `master` has the following label and taint.

- Label
    1. `node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane=true`
    2. `node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd=true`
- Taints
    1. `node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane=true:NoSchedule`
    2. `node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd=true:NoExecute`

To locate `topolvm-scheduler` onto `master`, update node affinity and toleration.

```console
$ kubectl edit daemonset topolvm-scheduler -n topolvm-system
# Edit as follows
 apiVersion: apps/v1
 kind: DaemonSet
...
 spec:
...
   template:
...
     spec:
       affinity:
         nodeAffinity:
           requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
             nodeSelectorTerms:
             - matchExpressions:
-              - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
+              - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane
                 operator: Exists
...
       tolerations:
       - key: CriticalAddonsOnly
         operator: Exists
-      - effect: NoSchedule
-        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
+      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/controlplane
+        operator: Exists
+      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd
+        operator: Exists
...
```

> ### Apply scheduler extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Adding the scheduler extender
```

> Download the scheduler extension configuration files onto `master`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download the scheduler extender configuration files on the `master` instance.
```

TOPOLVM_VERSION=0.4.0
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/scheduler
sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/kubernetes/scheduler/scheduler-policy.cfg https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/deploy/scheduler-config/scheduler-policy.cfg
sudo curl -sSL -o /etc/kubernetes/scheduler/scheduler-config.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cybozu-go/topolvm/v${TOPOLVM_VERSION}/docs/rancher/scheduler-config.yaml
exit
```

On the Rancher dashboard, click `Edit` and update `Cluster Options` with `Edit as YAML` to tell Kubernetes where the scheduler extension configuration is.

```console
   services:
     ...
     kube-api:
       always_pull_images: false
       pod_security_policy: false
       service_node_port_range: 30000-32767
     kube-controller: {}
     kubelet:
       fail_swap_on: false
       generate_serving_certificate: false
     kubeproxy: {}
# Add extra_args
-    scheduler: {}
+    scheduler:
+      extra_args:
+        config: /etc/kubernetes/scheduler/scheduler-config.yaml
   ssh_agent_auth: false
```

Then click `Save` to finish the configuration.

## 7. Provision volume with TopoLVM

Congratulations!! You finally deployed TopoLVM on RKE.

> To confirm now TopoLVM is actually working, create PVC and mount it on a `Pod`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To confirm TopoLVM is working, create PVC and mount it on a `Pod`.
```

To locate `topolvm-scheduler` onto `master`, update node affinity and toleration.

> ```diff

Reviewer 2: It's not a diff.
